# GL-PROJECTS
/Projects for AIML course from Great Learning
Data Description: The actual concrete compressive strength (MPa) for a given mixture under a specific age (days) was determined from laboratory. Data is in raw form (not scaled).Thedata has 8 quantitative input variables, and 1 quantitative output variable, and 1030 instances (observations).Domain: Cement manufacturingContext:Concrete is the most important material in civil engineering. The concrete compressive strength is a highly nonlinear function of age and ingredients. These ingredients include cement, blast furnace slag, fly ash, water, superplasticizer, coarse aggregate, and fine aggregate.Attribute Information:Cement: measured in kg in a m3 mixtureBlast: measured in kg in a m3 mixtureFly ash: measured in kg in a m3 mixtureWater: measured in kg in a m3 mixtureSuperplasticizer: measured in kg in a m3 mixtureCoarse Aggregate: measured in kg in a m3 mixtureFine Aggregate: measured inkg in a m3 mixtureAge: day (1~365)Concrete compressive strengthmeasured in MPaLearning Outcomes: Exploratory Data AnalysisBuilding ML models for regressionHyper parameter tuning
Proprietary content. ©Great Learning. All Rights Reserved. Unauthorized use or distribution prohibitedObjective: Modeling of strength of high performance concrete using Machine LearningSteps and tasks:1.Deliverable -1(Exploratory data quality report reflecting the following)(20 marks)a.Univariate analysis(5 marks)i.Univariate analysis –data types and description of the independent attributes which should include (name, meaning, range of values observed, central values (mean and median), standard deviation and quartiles, analysis of the body of distributions / tails, missing values, outliersb.Multivariate analysis (5 marks)i.Bi-variate analysis between the predictor variables and between the predictor variables and target column. Comment on your findings in terms of their relationship and degree of relation if any. Presence of leverage points. Visualize the analysis using boxplots and pair plots, histograms ordensity curves. Select the most appropriate attributesc.Pick one strategyto address the presenceoutliers and missing valuesand perform necessary imputation(10 marks)2.Deliverable -2(Feature Engineering techniques)(15 marks)a.Identify opportunities (ifany) to create a composite feature, drop a featureetc. (5 marks)b.Decide on complexity of the model, should it be simple linear modelin terms of parameters or would a quadratic or higher degree help(5 marks)c.Explore for gaussians. If data is likely to be a mix of gaussians, explore individual clusters and present your findings in terms of the independent attributes and their suitability to predict strength(5 marks)3.Deliverable -3 (create the model )( 15 marks)a.Obtain feature importance for the individualfeaturesand present your findings4.Deliverable -4 (Tuning the model)(20 marks)a.Algorithms that you think will be suitable for this project(5marks)
Proprietary content. ©Great Learning. All Rights Reserved. Unauthorized use or distribution prohibitedb.Techniques employed to squeeze that extra performance out of the model without making it overfit or underfit(5 marks)c.Model performance range at 95% confidence level(10 marks)
