# GL-PROJECTS
/Projects for AIML course from Great Learning
The ProblemDescription:Recognizing multi-digit numbers in photographs captured at street level is an importantcomponent of modern-day map making. A classic example of a corpus of such streetlevel photographs is Google’s StreetView imagery comprised of hundreds of millions ofgeo-located 360 degree panoramic images. The ability to automatically transcribe anaddress number from a geo-located patch of pixels and associate the transcribednumber with a known street address helps pinpoint, with a high degree of accuracy, thelocation of the building it represents.More broadly, recognizing numbers in photographs is a problem of interest to the opticalcharacter recognition community. While OCR on constrained domains like documentprocessing is well studied, arbitrary multi-character text recognition in photographs isstill highly challenging. This difficulty arises due to the wide variability in the visualappearance of text in the wild on account of a large range of fonts, colours, styles,orientations, and character arrangements. The recognition problem is furthercomplicated by environmental factors such as lighting, shadows, secularities, andocclusions as well as by image acquisition factors such as resolution, motion, and focusblurs.In this project we will use dataset with images centred around a single digit (many of theimages do contain some distractors at the sides). Although we are taking a sample ofthe data which is simpler, it is more complex than MNIST because of the distractors.Data Description: The Street View House Numbers (SVHN) DatasetSVHN is a real-world image dataset for developing machine learning and objectrecognition algorithms with minimal requirement on data formatting but comes from asignificantly harder, unsolved, real world problem (recognizing digits and numbers innatural scene images). SVHN is obtained from house numbers in Google Street Viewimages.Link to the dataset:https://drive.google.com/file/d/1L2-WXzguhUsCArrFUc8EEkXcj33pahoS/view?usp=sharing
Proprietary content. ©Great Learning. All Rights Reserved. Unauthorized use or distribution prohibitedAcknowledgement for the datasets.Yuval Netzer, Tao Wang, Adam Coates, Alessandro Bissacco, Bo Wu, Andrew Y. NgReading Digits in Natural Images with Unsupervised Feature Learning NIPS Workshopon Deep Learning and Unsupervised Feature Learning 2011. PDFhttp://ufldl.stanford.edu/housenumbers as the URL for this site when necessaryObjective:The objective of the project is to learn how to implement a simple image classification pipeline based on a deep neural network. The goals of this project are as follows: Steps and tasks1.Load Dataset2.Understand the basic Image Classification pipeline and the data-driven approach (train/predict stages)3.Data fetching and understand the train/val/test splits. (15points)4.Implement and apply a deep neural network classifier including (feedforward neuralnetwork, RELU, activations) (25points) 5.Implement batch normalization for training the neural network(10points) 6.Print the classification accuracy metrics (10points)
